They worked well together. And then when she got, I
believe it was Dr. Williams, she called me and
said, I just don't think I can work for him. And I
said, yes, you can. You can work for anybody. She
didn't know him that well, and she was just out of
her element. So, of course, it worked out
beautifully. I think he sent her a dozen roses, and
I think he realized she was having time adjusting
too, but it all worked out really well. Describe
Dr. Williams as you remember him. Well, of course,
I didn't have a lot of connection with him, so I
can't really comment on it, so I don't really know.
What do you think was the general campus
impression of him? I don't know. Oh, you don't? I'm
sorry, I really don't. We had all we could handle in
the graduate college, and I really didn't. Do you
know what the student nickname for him was? No.
Smiling Jack. Oh, well. Because he was always
upbeat. Yeah. Okay. No, I really have no... Not
long after Dr. Williams got here, he appointed
John Calhoun as the vice president. Dr. Coonsey
remained as the graduate dean. And you all moved to
the Teague building. Yes. Then he retired. He who?
Couldn't say. Leo Berner, was he the? Leo Berner
was the associate dean. Okay. And then we had two or
three sometimes assistant deans that handled all
the paperwork. They signed off on the paperwork
before it went into the computer. So we still had
paperwork. By that time were you the senior staff
person? I was the administrative secretary.
Right. And who did you have? How many people did you
have helping you? We had about 10 in there.
If we can count the thesis part, which he was a part
of it also. But we had to. We had that, we had, I'm
sorry, I can't remember the enrollment and
graduate programs, but we were graduating 200 or
300 each graduation, and there was a lot of
paperwork. And then we were trying to get a, a
program that would get rid of the dead wood,
because we needed the space so the filing cabinets
were full. That was always a constant battle on
records and where to put them and everything. But
it worked well. Dr. Kunze was good. And then when
Dr. Kunze retired and Dr. Berner took over, he
pretty much went along the same path as Dr. Kunze
had established. Describe Leo Berner. Leo Burner
is a sweetheart. He's a nice person. He's
easygoing. He doesn't like any problems or
troubles or anything to upset the apple cart, so we
kept things running pretty smooth. I don't think
he made any great progress, but he also didn't lose
anything either. Dr. Kunze's background was
agronomy and soils. Leo Burner's was
oceanography, biological oceanography. Did, in
the routine of what they liked or didn't like, what
was the differences between those two? I'd rather
not comment. Okay, all right. Okay. I have bitter
memories about it. The, let's see, was it, at what
point did you all start wearing pantsuits? Was it
under Berner or Coonsy? No, no, no, it was under Dr.
Coonsy in the Coke building. How did y'all make the
request of him? How did y'all raise the question?
We just started talking among ourselves, you
know, do you think we could wear pantsuits? Well,
we can just ask. So we got together, two or three of
us, especially the pretty girls in the office,
they always could get whatever they wanted. But
no, it was not a problem because it was coming and
they could see it. Did you all use many student
employees? We used a lot of student wives. That was
part of the problem in that office. All the jobs
were low-scale, dead-end jobs. So there was
turnover. A lot of turnover. The student wives
were excellent. We got real good help with the
student wives. But it was... We couldn't keep
anybody who was very good if they were staying
because there was no place for them to go to
advance. So we had to fight for, they always
thought the graduate college spent too much
money, so at least Dr. Kunze said that. And so our
budgets were very trim. He trimmed, he was that
kind of a man, he trimmed everything to the bare
bones. we had to start putting in for better
positions in that office in order to maintain it.
During the years that Calhoun was the vice
president, was there any difference in the
routine? No, Dr. Calhoun was very, he was good to
all of us. I mean, most of them were afraid of Dr.
Calhoun, but he was... He was very good. He let Dr.
Kunze do, I mean, they got together on certain
things if there was a problem, but they had no
problem working together. As far as y'all were
aware, where were the chief academic decisions
made? The academic decisions in the graduate
office was made through the graduate council. And
one of the things that, what Rutter wanted Dr.
Kunze to do was put some structure in the graduate
catalog. It was too flexible, and it was being used
flexibly, you know, depending on who asks. Now,
who was on the Graduate Council? Who made up the
Graduate Council? I can't tell you, but... Was it
faculty or deans? They were representatives of
the different colleges. They weren't always the
deans and not necessarily the deans. And Kunze
presided over it, didn't he? He was the chairman.
And when the deans... And then it went to the
Academic Programs Committee from the Graduate
College. So he started building structure into
the graduate catalogs that we could live with and
use so we could... And the deans met weekly, APC,
Academic Programs Council, or whatever that
stood for. Yeah. And... Then where did the
decision come from to... Do away with the deans?
Yeah, do away with the dean of the graduate school.
We're really not sure. I mean, I'm not sure. But I
think several of the colleges, and I would say
engineering might be one of them, college of
business might be another one, that wanted to run
their own shows.
And they were growing, too. They were growing big
time, and they wanted to do their own things. Now,
this was in the 80s? This was in the 80s. I believe
Dr. Kunze retired in 84, Dr. Berner in 87, so this
is... After that. 88 and 89, we were without a dean.
It became a director. They made a director. Dr.
Gussman became the director. And he was on the
graduate council. That was the best thing that
happened for me in those two years was when he
became director because I could work with Dr.
Gussman because he knew what we were doing and
everything. I don't know anything about him.
Describe him. Larry Gussman was a lovable,
energetic... fun kind of person. He's a
mathematician. He worked for NASA.
G-U-S-E-M-A-N.
He was well-respected. I mean, he did a lot of
graduate work in the mathematics or the College of
Science. And so he was well prepared to be the
director when he, and he was my suggestion to the
boss when he asked me who I would want as director. I
told him, Gusman, and that's who got it. I was
shocked, but I was pleased, too. But he'd made it in
life different. And then when I retired, they
hired a man to take my job, and in two years, both
those men were dead. Dr. Gusman died, and the man
that took my place died. Now, you retired what
year? 1989. So I took it two years, one year without
anybody in the office. And so then the graduate
programs in each of the colleges were run by the
dean of that college. Well, they still come
through the graduate office, but there was no
authority particularly in the graduate office.
But the paperwork still flowed in. It never quit.
But the authority... The authority was pretty
much established in the colleges. Now, if they
wanted a new degree program, they still had to
submit paperwork for one to be approved through
the channels, but they had pretty much to say what
they... Which do you think was, in hindsight,
which do you think was the better system? I only saw
it from my point of view, so I can't say for the
second one, but I thought
it was more It was a stronger program when there was
an umbrella overlooking the whole scene. I agree
with you. And it's like they said, once you let the
toothpaste out of the tube, you can never put it
back. And we were told that from other schools that
had tried that, and it didn't work. Now I
understand there is a dean there in the graduate
office now, but I'm not sure what kind of power he
had. But it was, I felt like that, what we had, what
Dr. Coonsey had worked so hard to structure and
have it overall a good package was now coming loose
at the end. But see, that's from my standpoint. I
can't speak from theirs. All right. In your 25
years, which presidents, I'm not going to ask the
negative, to which presidents would you give the
highest marks for their leadership of Texas A&M?
I'd have to say Rutter simply because I know what he
did for us. I don't know about any other. I just was
too isolated in the graduate programs to speak for
the university. Which of the vice presidents for
academic affairs would you give the, now we call it
provost, but in those days vice, to which would you
give the? I think Dr. Calhoun was the one that was
most beneficial for us. I agree with you. Why? On
what do you base your opinion? I agree. I just know
how he supported us, and he was watching over
things. He was not somebody that just let things go
by without him. But he was watching to see what
happened, and if he had some criticism of it, well,
he always spoke up, and Dr. Kunze always worked it
out. So I felt like we had his support, and yet he let
Dr. Kunze do the job he was supposed to do. Now, the
next question has to do with the point of view of you
as a staff member. When the Board of Regents
recreated the system after Dr. Williams had his
heart attack, they made him chancellor and
recreated the separate position of president. He
recommended Dr. Calhoun for that position, but
the board selected Jarvis Miller. Do you remember
in the Teague building, do you remember what was it
like for you and the other staff members? What
changes were there? As far as we were concerned, we
were still doing the same thing we were doing
before, so it really didn't affect us any. As far as
it affecting the dean, it may have, but he didn't
talk about it. The staff people, the sad thing
about the staff is that we weren't paid enough. We
worked hard, but we really didn't have a good
salary ever. And were there merit increases for
staff in those days? The few merit increases you
had were dealt, the dean or, yes, the dean would be
the one to designate who got it. which really
wasn't always fair.
I think there was more, there were more problems
with the fact that we were underpaid and
overworked. Most of those offices that we would
talk to don't have enough to do. We had more than we
could do. And we worked hard and I worked hard and I
expect everybody else to work hard. It made me a
pretty bitter woman. I mean, bitter, but I was
just, that's all I did was work. During those
years, what was the busiest time of the year? The
busiest time of the year was in the springtime. All
of those awards had to be made. A lot of the
preparations for fall had to be made, the
fellowships. the awards, the graduate student
awards, association of former students awards,
all of those things came and we were pretty much in
charge of getting the applications and getting
them ready to be reviewed and that kind of thing. So
I think spring was the hardest. Summer wasn't
easy, but spring was hard. And of the colleges,
Again, not going to ask the negative. Which
colleges, from the point of view of the graduate
school, which colleges did the best job from
your... From my standpoint? Mm-hmm.
Who managed their responsibilities best? I think
agriculture did. Or at least they were They tried
to work within the system, and if there was a
problem, then they'd just pick up the phone and
we'd talk about it. But they weren't fighting it.
In other words, they were just trying to do what we
had established. And I think the agriculture did
the best job. Were there some deans that you
enjoyed most? Well, let me think of who the deans
were. The best deans to work with?
I'd have to think about that one. Of course, I did
work through their administrative secretaries,
so it was not easy for me to say that, because any
time we had anything to communicate, it was
through the secretary. Which of those
secretaries were the best to work with? Oh, I liked
them all, let's face it. Mayor Ruth Patronella,
she was always pleasant to work with. In
agriculture? In agriculture. And Betty Robinson
in science.
And Peggy Ritchie in liberal arts. Yeah, those are
people that, like I said, we never had any problem
asking for help or giving help to each other, so it
worked out. I'm not trying to paint this beautiful
picture, but it was a beautiful picture to work
during those years. Do you remember, from the
point of view of the graduate office, do you
remember any outside interference from beyond
the campus ever attempted? Did any regent or
former student or politician
ever attempt to get somebody graduated or
admitted or? Not flunked out or anything? I really
can't remember any incident. If it happened, then
it was kept. I'm not aware of any. I mean, I don't, I
just don't know of any. It was pretty
straightforward. Either they passed their oral
or they didn't pass their oral or they didn't have
the GPR. It was, you know, pretty cut and dried. So
there wasn't a lot of flexibility. Now, as far as
extensions on deadlines, we gave a lot of them. But
that's okay. If we can get somebody graduating and
give them a little more time, that's fine. And we
had no problem with giving those things. And they
usually worked out fine. Now that extension on
deadline meant that they had to have their thesis
turned or dissertation by a certain date and
sometimes that could be extended for them. Well
those were not easy to give because there was so
much work to be done with those things that we
couldn't be a lot, very flexible but we're talking
about if they wanted to take their prelim beyond
the time that they're supposed to have it, like an
extension, or graduate maybe a semester later or
something like that, that was easy to give. In
dealing with the registrar and director of
admissions office, compare H.L. Heaton to Ed
Cooper.
Of course, when I knew Mr. Heaton, I was working for
Mr. Perriman, and I didn't have a lot of
interaction with Mr. Eaton. He was always
strolling around the office looking at what we
were doing and very pleasant. Ed Cooper, the
people I worked with under Ed Cooper were super. By
the way, our present registrar, Don Carter, used
to be our graduate assistant. That reminds me,
yes. Describe him as a graduate assistant. Oh, Don
was fun. He was a very good graduate assistant, but
he was lots of fun, and he loved to tease Mrs.
Watson, and she loved it in spite of her saying she
didn't. She loved that. But Don could clean up the
storeroom, the closet, with all the supplies in,
to perfection, and that's the way he wanted it.
Mm-hmm. I used to leave a drawer out behind me where
I had some forms in it and there was a passageway and
Don got very upset with me because he was going to
fall and break his neck on that drawer if I didn't
close it. But it was a good time.
Don Carter was a splendid student worker. One of
the best.
About what was the continuous staff? About how
many people did you all have? In the early days, we
had about five. I think that would about cover it.
Admissions and bookkeeper, receptionist and a
typist, the administrative secretary. That's
about all we had. Then in the later days, what, 15?
10 to 15? Well, they actually saved about 10. I'll
have to stop and think about that. Of course, we
used a lot of student help as much as possible,
which without it we couldn't have handled. And
don't I remember part of the time in the Teague
building there were people with desks out in the
hallway? In the hallway, yes. And then we had
offices down the hall. When they added a
recruiter, Jack Ivins came in and they made him a
recruiter. He took up some offices and he had an
assistant that was working with him. And
I guess that's the only office we had down the hall.
But we just had filing cabinets every nook and
cranny. As you think about all those, that quarter
century, what were some of the happiest times, the
high points?
The high points. Most enjoyable. Christmas
parties. Where were they held? Well, Dr. Kunze
would always have his at his house. And I was trying
to think, Dr. Hall had it, where do we have it? I
think we had it at his house, too. And then we had it
at Werner's home. But it was fun when we got away
from the office and could socialize together.
When we weren't working, that was a good time.
Other high points? Of course, we had, I can't say
for the graduate college high points. It was just
when personal people we'd worked with got married
or had children or something like that. That was
always nice, and we always gave them parties. Was
it also a feel-good event when you'd finally sent
off all of that commencement's dissertation and
thesis lists and everything to the registrar? I
would like to say it was, but the only problem with
that is I had everything stacked up waiting for me
to work on the next graduation that had backed up
while I was finishing that one. So it was just a
continuous process. It was good to be through and
have those lists turned in, yes. Now, y'all never
had any catastrophe, no fire, no... No. No, where
everything went wrong. No, I found that during the
Christmas holidays, I would always pick up the
mail and open it and bring it up to the office, and
two times I found the office flooded because the
pipes had burst and the floors were under water,
but no damage to the equipment, just water damage.
our experiences with the new automated typing
equipment. Yes, talk about that. Of course it was a
wonderful thing except that the equipment we got
to begin with was not good and we would try it and
keep trying it and have them in and everything. It
was more frustrating than anything. But finally
we were able to get some really good word
processing equipment which made our lives much
easier and was the answer to it. And of course we
went into the computers. Everybody had their own
computer and we had our own software that we worked
into. Certain people would do certain things and
that was good. Make believe that someone didn't
know the dimensions of the building. About how big
was the data processing center when it first
opened? How big was a building? It was big. It was
very big. And also when we asked for reports we
would have to get them in batches. And if there was
something wrong with the report, there were
batches of paper that had to be trashed. We tried to
use it as scrap paper, but we couldn't use that much
paper. But we'd have to run, because that was the
economical time to run that was a certain time of
the evening. And of course, we had to go down and
pick up our reports at the Data Processing Center,
bring them up, look at them. trial and error, they
finally got straightened out. But it was a great
system. Right now, as you were getting ready to
conclude, have we left out anything that you can
think of, any important topics? Not that I can
think of at the moment. I probably will when I go
home. I think of a lot of things. Well, we can put
that in when we get the typed version. Well, I just
remember my last two years was so difficult
because All of a sudden, there were no deans, and
the associate provost for research and graduate
studies was across campus. We moved all the excess
filing cabinets out of the dean's offices into the
hall, and he wanted all those things destroyed. He
wanted everything trashed. Now, is that to whom
you reported then? Yes, sir. I didn't. What I did
was move myself out of his office. He had an office
in our building, and my office was next to it, of
course, like Kunze's and Berner's. But I took
myself out of there and went into the graduate
college office where I could take care of the
records
and moved my clerk who was in the graduate office
into my office to take care of the associate
provost when he was there or on the phone or
anything. So I said, you take care of him. I'm going
to take care of the graduate office. That's the
only way I could have operated. And it worked fine.
But it was difficult. I was losing my hair. It was
very dramatic. In those tough times, to whom did
you turn for advice?
I called, at one time, I called Dr. Gussman in the
office and asked him this particular question I
was not sure about. He told me. I was fine. But then
when my boss got, found out about it, he came in and
chewed me out, told me never to do that again, that I
was to come to him with any questions I had. So I was
so tranquilized by then. I was on tranquilizers. I
was just, okay, he's chewing me out, but it's okay.
And I didn't, I really didn't react because I knew I
had to do what I had to do. And I just overcame it.
Just kept going. Had no choice. But everybody was
so nice to me. I must say all the graduate faculty
that I dealt with, all the problems we had, they
couldn't have been nicer. And I was pleased at the
way that I did it and they supported me. So I got that
out of it anyway. Do you remember any goofy things
that happened? Mistakes or snafus?
I can just remember working, you know, just trying
to keep my head above water. And I know I didn't
enjoy the office parties because I just couldn't
get away from the work. I just took it with me
everywhere I went. And fortunately, I lived
alone, so I didn't. But I just had to keep going. But
I burned out. And I've warned people about that
that are working like that, that you will
eventually burn out. And then you're no good to
anybody. All right. Now, looking back over all
those years, If you could award stars of
gratitude, to whom would you give the stars? Oh, I
have a lot of people I'm grateful to. The main
person is Dr. Kunze, who was so... Because you must
realize, I was not a trained secretary. Never have
been. But he just made me feel like I was doing
great, and I appreciate it, which now I know I
wasn't. But... He was very understanding and
everything so I am most grateful to him and to Mr.
Kidd, Professor Kidd, Leo Berner. This is Harry
Kidd? Yes. Out of the English? Yes, Harry Kidd.
What was his... He was an assistant dean. He did a
lot of Dr. Kudzi's writing or fixed what he wrote.
He never got over his German.
ancestry but he was always willing able to to help I
just I have a lot of people all the people I worked
with through the colleges very supportive and I
seem to be painting this beautiful picture but in
that text that that really they were fine people I
mean I had no problems with dealing with the people
I learned how I learned how to handle people also Is
it correct that in those years this place was much
more personal than it would be in the late 80s? Yes.
Which is fine. You could work out a lot of things
before it ever got to paper. And that's why we
prefer to just work out what you want and then they
do the paperwork and then it's fine. But It was just
a constant battle, simply because there was such
quantity. And we just didn't have enough people to
cover it all. In summary, what were you most proud
of in those 25 years? The fact that I worked for
George Coonsey and his
goals and his accomplishments during those
years, I became a part of it. A small part of it, but
still a part of it. I was there when it happened and
supported him the best I could. He was a work... He
was a taskmaster. He worked hard. He worked harder
than we did, but we worked hard. But he worked
harder. And the last question, what feelings do
you carry in your heart for Texas A&M today? It is
my... It is my family, so to speak. I feel like I'm a
part of this university in some small way, and I
care about it tremendously. I don't think I care
any less than some of the former students and
people that have belonged here. Although I was
never a student, I really feel